1) sudo (command)
Short for superuser do, sudo is one of the most popular basic Linux commands that lets you perform tasks that require administrative or root permissions.
You can also add an option, such as:

-k or –reset-timestamp invalidates the timestamp file.
-g or –group=group runs commands as a specified group name or ID.
-h or –host=host runs commands on the host.

2) pwd [option]
Use the pwd command to find the path of your current working directory.
It has two acceptable options:

-L or –logical prints environment variable content, including symbolic links.
-P or –physical prints the actual path of the current directory.

3. cd command
To navigate through the Linux files and directories, use the cd command.
Here are some shortcuts to help you navigate:

cd ~[username] goes to another user’s home directory.
cd .. moves one directory up.
cd- moves to your previous directory.

4.ls command
The ls command lists files and directories within a system.
Here are some options you can use with the ls command:

ls -R lists all the files in the subdirectories.
ls -a shows hidden files in addition to the visible ones.
ls -lh shows the file sizes in easily readable formats, such as MB, GB, and TB.

5. cat command
Here are other ways to use the cat command:

cat > filename.txt creates a new file.
cat filename1.txt filename2.txt > filename3.txt merges filename1.txt and filename2.txt and stores the output in filename3.txt.
tac filename.txt displays content in reverse order.

6. cp command
Use the cp command to copy files or directories and their content.

7. mv command
The primary use of the mv command is to move and rename files and directories.

8. mkdir command
The mkdir command accepts many options, such as:

-p or –parents create a directory between two existing folders. For example, mkdir -p Music/2020/Songs will make the new “2020” directory.
-m sets the file permissions. For instance, to create a directory with full read, write, and execute permissions for all users, enter mkdir -m777 directory_name.
-v prints a message for each created directory.

10. rm command
The rm command is used to delete files within a directory.
Here are some acceptable options you can add:

-i prompts system confirmation before deleting a file.
-f allows the system to remove without a confirmation.
-r deletes files and directories recursively.

11. touch command
The touch command allows you to create an empty file or generate and modify a timestamp in the Linux command line.

12. locate command
The locate command can find a file in the database system.

The command will search for files that contain the words school and note, whether they use uppercase or lowercase letters.

13. find command
Use the find command to search for files within a specific directory and perform subsequent operations.
Here are other variations when using find:

find -name filename.txt to find files in the current directory.
find ./ -type d -name directoryname to look for directories.

14. grep command
Another basic Linux command on the list is grep or global regular expression print. It lets you find a word by searching through all the texts in a specific file.
grep blue notepad.txt

27. uname command
The uname or unix name command will print detailed information about your Linux system and hardware.

28. top command
The top command in Linux Terminal will display all the running processes and a dynamic real-time view of the current system

39. htop command
The htop command is an interactive program that monitors system resources and server processes in real time.

40. ps command
The process status or ps command produces a snapshot of all running processes in your system.

